# 2020-04-03
- Review agenda - Dan - 5 mins
- Antitrust compliance - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Launching the technical committee: tools, processes, meeting cadence - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Introducing the Technical Masterplan artifact - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Terms deserving of MECE definition - team - 15 mins
- Need for an OVN "terms Tsar" and request for volunteers - team - 5 mins
- Introducing the idea of projects - team - 5 mins

# 2020-04-17
- Review Linux Foundation Project Charter - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Final v1 review of vocabulary - Maria - 10 mins
- Review Masterplan - Dan and Maria - 1 hour
- Projects to focus on roundtable (be prepared to describe your three highest priority projects) - Dan - remaining time

# 2020-05-01
- CANCELLED

# 2020-05-14
- Definition of "Project" - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Update on communities and their role - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Discuss and check peoples access to tools - team - 10 mins
- Call for another round of review to the Technical Masterplan - Dan Cundiff - 10 mins 
- Top 3 working groups to focus on first - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Feedback - team - 10 mins

# 2020-05-29
- Antitrust statement - Jon Stine - 1 mins
- Introduction - Ways of Working document on Git - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Follow-up from 2020-05-14 meeting - outstanding issues - Dan Cundiff or Kristi Dank - 10 mins
- Follow-up if everyone got the chance to review the Masterplan
- Review 1.0 proposed list of Tech Comm development projects - Jim

# 2020-06-10
- Antitrust statement -- Jon Stine - 1 min
- Organizational updates and introductions/questions - Jon Stine - 10 mins
- Website development work and volunteers - Dan Cundiff - 10 mins
- Forming, running, operating working groups for activities - 20 mins
- Follow-up from 2020-05-29 meeting - outstanding issues - Dan Cundiff or Kristi Dank - 10 mins

# 2020-06-26
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording - Jon Stine - 1 min
- Follow-up: GitHub training and on-boarding meeting recordings - links via Slack - Jon Stine - 3 minutes
- Follow-up: review Technical Committee and Developer Community inputs into proposed activities list: foundationalexploratory, etc. - Dan Cundiff
- Action: determination of initial prioritized activities - Dan Cundiff 
- Action: determination of working group participants and leaders - Dan Cundiff, Jon Stine
- Summation of decisions - Kristi Dank
- Review of meeting processes, question, comments - Dan Cundiff

# 2020-07-10
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording - Jon Stine - 1 min
- Ethical use update - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Google question - Jon Stine - 10 mins
- Update on progress from working groups - Dan Cundiff + chairs of working groups
- Feedback loop: working group ways of working improvements - Dan Cundiff
- Request to go over the details of the Technical Masterplan - Dan Cundiff

# 2020-07-24
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (1 minute) -- D. Cundiff 
- Open Voice Network: update from Steering Committee (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- First look at Tech Comm milestones; a working draft (3 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group: decisions and next steps (15 minutes)  -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group: decisions and next steps (10 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Update from Architecture Work Group: a review of this past Tuesday's discussion (40 minutes) -- D. Cundiff, D. Attwater, J. Eisenzopf, J. Larson, et. al.
- Update: Designer-Strategist Community -- enterprise use cases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- Request: review of the proposed "North Star" aspirational statement, now on GitHub (5 minutes):  -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-08-07
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: challenges, updates -- (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (20 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (20 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Proposal and Discussion:  launch of a Voice Registry System Work Group (10 minutes) -- J. Larson, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Update: "North Star" aspirational statement -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-08-21
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: membership update, milestones -- (10 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (20 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (20 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Proposal and Discussion:  discussions, directions, next steps -- J. Larson, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Update: "North Star" aspirational statement -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-09-4
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: membership update, milestones -- (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- OVN North Star / Scope: proposed summary statement.  A follow-up from the 2020.08.21 conversation -- (15 minutes) -- J. Stine, et.al
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (15 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (15 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Report from the VRS Work Group: discussions, directions, next steps (15 minutes)-- M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-09-18
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update:  membership update, communications (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- How all this could fit together: roadmap, milestones, next steps (10 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (15 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (15 minutes) - J. Larson
- Report from the VRS Work Group (15 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-02
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Positioning: market transitions, future of voice assistance (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the VRS Work Group (10 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (10 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (10 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-16
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN organizational update: sponsorship, participation, messaging (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Requests/recommendations from OVN Communities (5 minutes) -- 
- Report from the VRS Work Group (10 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (10 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (10 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-30
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report and Recommendations from the Privacy-Security Work Group (30 minutes) -- M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Questions, Discussion, Roundtable (10 minutes)
- Report from the VRS Work Group (5 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (5 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-11-13
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- Review of Work Group process, preview of 2020.11.20 meeting -- J. Stine (1 minute)
- Follow-up: Next steps and recommendations, Privacy Team within Privacy-Security Work Group (5 minutes) -- M. Frazzini, O. Coleman
- Report and Recommendations from the Security Team within the Privacy-Security Work Group (30 minutes) --  M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Questions, Discussion, Roundtable (10 minutes)
- Report from the VRS Work Group (5 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (5 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-11-20
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- Review of Work Group processes:  ways of working, vocabulary review, Technical Charter -- J. Stine (5 minutes)
- Follow-up: Next steps and recommendations, Security Team within Privacy-Security Work Group (5 minutes) -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald
- Report and Recommendations from the Voice Registry System Work Group (30 minutes) --  M. Brinas-Dobrowski
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Technical Committee Feedback:  Questions, Discussion, Recommendations for Next Steps (10 minutes)
- Report and Recommendations from the Architecture Work Group (30 minutes) --  J. Larson
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Technical Committee Feedback:  Questions, Discussion, Recommendations for Next Steps (10 minutes)
- Summation Discussion:  Next Steps (10 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Calendar Moving Forward  (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-12-11
# The 2020 Review; the 2021 View
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- O. Coleman
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- The YE 2020 Report
  - Where we stand year-end; expectations and goals for 2021  (D. Cundiff)
  - Perspectives from the 2020.12.07 Steering Committee meeting (D. Cundiff)
- Next Steps Report (5-minutes each):
  - VRS Work Group
  - Privacy work-stream within the Privacy & Security Work Group 
  - Security work-stream within the Privacy & Security Work Group
  - Architecture Work Group
  - Vocabulary Reconciliation Task Force
- Organizational Review (5 minutes):  J. Stine
- 2021 Calendar and Planning (J. Stine)
- Summation (D. Cundiff)

# 2021-01-08
# Planning 2021
- Antritrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes)
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Open Items/Issues to Review?  -- J. Stine
- 2021 Current State and Plan
  -- expectations overall
  -- available resources for Tech Comm investment
  -- Plans by Work Group
- Open Items, questions, comments, criticisms
- Summation and Next Steps -- J. Stine
- 

# 2021-01-22
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2-minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Plan 2021 Overview, OVN -- J. Stine 
- Plan 2021: OVN Process
- Plan 2021, Technical Committee: thoughts and observations -- D. Cundiff
- Plan 2021, by Tech Comm Work Group: 
    -- introduction to POR development process -- O. Coleman
    -- Plan 2021 Work Group intersections: _where will your WG need others?_
      - VRS: M. Brinas-Dobrowski
      - Architecture:  J. Larson
      - Privacy-Security: M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald, N. Myers
- Summation and Next Steps

# 2021-02-5
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2-minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Proposed Change:  Technical Committee Agenda going forward  
- Reminder: Q1 Milestones
- Progress Reports by Tech Comm Work Group: 
      - VRS: M. Brinas-Dobrowski
      - Architecture-Components:  J. Larson
      - Privacy-Security: M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald, N. Myers
- Summation and Next Steps

# 2021-02-19
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Reminder: Work Group Deep Dives begin 5 March
- Quarterly milestones review (10 minutes)
    - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
    - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-03-05
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Quarterly milestones review (10 minutes)
    - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
    - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Privacy, of the Privacy & Security Work Group (M. Frazzini)
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 19 March -- VRS; 2 April -- Security; 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-03-19
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Update: the OVN and the European Data Protection Board Version 1.0 on Virtual Voice Assistants (5 minutes) -- J. Stine, O. Coleman
- Quarterly milestones review (5 minutes)
    - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
    - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Voice Registry System (VRS) -- M. Brinas-Dobrowski 
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 2 April -- Security; 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-04-02
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Q2 Milestones (5 minutes)
-   - thoughts on our progress -- Jon 
    - Q2 milestones: In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Security -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn


# 2021-04-16
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Ways of working:  OVN programming language; hosting OVN POC's -- D. Cundiff 
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes)
- Q2 Milestones -- to be identified in Git as of 30 April (5 minutes)
- 2021.04.16 DEEP DIVE:  Architecture -- J. Larson (30 minutes)
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-04-30
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Outstanding issue:  OVN programming language (15 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
-   issue recap -- bringing all parties to a common understanding -- D. Cundiff
-   expression of opinions and proposals for adoption
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - O. Coleman
- Updates (5 minutes)
-   Open Voice Network EDPB response: --  O. Coleman
-   Open Voice Network Voice Agent Interoperability Workshop -- J. Larson
- Continuation from last Technical Committee meeting:  Architecture Work Group (20 minutes) -- J. Larson, D. Attwater, D. Dahl
-   Deep Dive into three scenarios: the identification and documentation of requirements - process to date and examples
- Outstanding items, news, and events of note
- Adjournment

# 2021-05-14
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN News -- J. Stine
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- IP Licensing: next steps for OVN Technical Committee Work Groups (10 minutes) -- J. Stine, D. Cundiff 
- Review of 2021 Tech Comm deliverables, and progress to date  (20 minutes) -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald, O. Coleman, J. Larson, S. Prayaga, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Outstanding items, news, and events of note
- Adjournment

# 2021-05-28
No meeting.

# 2021-06-11
- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Open Voice Network News -- J. Stine
- Open Voice Network vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- Open Voice Network R&D Investment first thoughts: _to accomplish this deliverable in 2021, we will probably need ________ 
-   Privacy and Security Work Group
-   Architecture Work Group
-   Voice Registry System Work Group
- Voice Agent Interoperability Workshop 15-17 June -- Workshop Program Committee
-   Agenda/program/speakers
-   Adjournment
