---
layout: default
title: Technical Committee Meeting Agenda
parent: Technical Committee
---

# 2020-04-03

- Review agenda - Dan - 5 mins
- Antitrust compliance - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Launching the technical committee: tools, processes, meeting cadence - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Introducing the Technical Masterplan artifact - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Terms deserving of MECE definition - team - 15 mins
- Need for an OVN "terms Tsar" and request for volunteers - team - 5 mins
- Introducing the idea of projects - team - 5 mins

# 2020-04-17

- Review Linux Foundation Project Charter - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Final v1 review of vocabulary - Maria - 10 mins
- Review Masterplan - Dan and Maria - 1 hour
- Projects to focus on roundtable (be prepared to describe your three highest priority projects) - Dan - remaining time

# 2020-05-01

- CANCELLED

# 2020-05-14

- Definition of "Project" - Scott Nicholas - 5 mins
- Update on communities and their role - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Discuss and check peoples access to tools - team - 10 mins
- Call for another round of review to the Technical Masterplan - Dan Cundiff - 10 mins 
- Top 3 working groups to focus on first - Dan Cundiff - 15 mins
- Feedback - team - 10 mins

# 2020-05-29

- Antitrust statement - Jon Stine - 1 mins
- Introduction - Ways of Working document on Git - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Follow-up from 2020-05-14 meeting - outstanding issues - Dan Cundiff or Kristi Dank - 10 mins
- Follow-up if everyone got the chance to review the Masterplan
- Review 1.0 proposed list of Tech Comm development projects - Jim

# 2020-06-10

- Antitrust statement -- Jon Stine - 1 min
- Organizational updates and introductions/questions - Jon Stine - 10 mins
- Website development work and volunteers - Dan Cundiff - 10 mins
- Forming, running, operating working groups for activities - 20 mins
- Follow-up from 2020-05-29 meeting - outstanding issues - Dan Cundiff or Kristi Dank - 10 mins

# 2020-06-26

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording - Jon Stine - 1 min
- Follow-up: GitHub training and on-boarding meeting recordings - links via Slack - Jon Stine - 3 minutes
- Follow-up: review Technical Committee and Developer Community inputs into proposed activities list: foundationalexploratory, etc. - Dan Cundiff
- Action: determination of initial prioritized activities - Dan Cundiff 
- Action: determination of working group participants and leaders - Dan Cundiff, Jon Stine
- Summation of decisions - Kristi Dank
- Review of meeting processes, question, comments - Dan Cundiff

# 2020-07-10

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording - Jon Stine - 1 min
- Ethical use update - Jon Stine - 5 mins
- Google question - Jon Stine - 10 mins
- Update on progress from working groups - Dan Cundiff + chairs of working groups
- Feedback loop: working group ways of working improvements - Dan Cundiff
- Request to go over the details of the Technical Masterplan - Dan Cundiff

# 2020-07-24

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (1 minute) -- D. Cundiff 
- Open Voice Network: update from Steering Committee (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- First look at Tech Comm milestones; a working draft (3 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group: decisions and next steps (15 minutes)  -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group: decisions and next steps (10 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Update from Architecture Work Group: a review of this past Tuesday's discussion (40 minutes) -- D. Cundiff, D. Attwater, J. Eisenzopf, J. Larson, et. al.
- Update: Designer-Strategist Community -- enterprise use cases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- Request: review of the proposed "North Star" aspirational statement, now on GitHub (5 minutes):  -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-08-07

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: challenges, updates -- (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (20 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (20 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Proposal and Discussion:  launch of a Voice Registry System Work Group (10 minutes) -- J. Larson, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Update: "North Star" aspirational statement -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-08-21

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: membership update, milestones -- (10 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (20 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (20 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Proposal and Discussion:  discussions, directions, next steps -- J. Larson, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Update: "North Star" aspirational statement -- J. Stine
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-09-4

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update: membership update, milestones -- (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- OVN North Star / Scope: proposed summary statement.  A follow-up from the 2020.08.21 conversation -- (15 minutes) -- J. Stine, et.al
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group:  discussions, direction, next steps (15 minutes) -- M. Frazzini
- Report from the Architecture Work Group:  discussions, directions, next steps (15 minutes) -- J. Iwasz
- Report from the VRS Work Group: discussions, directions, next steps (15 minutes)-- M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-09-18

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Update:  membership update, communications (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- How all this could fit together: roadmap, milestones, next steps (10 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (15 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (15 minutes) - J. Larson
- Report from the VRS Work Group (15 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-02

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN Positioning: market transitions, future of voice assistance (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report from the VRS Work Group (10 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (10 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (10 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-16

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN organizational update: sponsorship, participation, messaging (5 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Requests/recommendations from OVN Communities (5 minutes) -- 
- Report from the VRS Work Group (10 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Privacy-Security Work Group (10 minutes) -- M. Frazzini 
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (10 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- D. Cundiff

# 2020-10-30

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Milestone review-reminders (1 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Report and Recommendations from the Privacy-Security Work Group (30 minutes) -- M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Questions, Discussion, Roundtable (10 minutes)
- Report from the VRS Work Group (5 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (5 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-11-13

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- Review of Work Group process, preview of 2020.11.20 meeting -- J. Stine (1 minute)
- Follow-up: Next steps and recommendations, Privacy Team within Privacy-Security Work Group (5 minutes) -- M. Frazzini, O. Coleman
- Report and Recommendations from the Security Team within the Privacy-Security Work Group (30 minutes) --  M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Questions, Discussion, Roundtable (10 minutes)
- Report from the VRS Work Group (5 minutes) - M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Report from the Architecture Work Group (5 minutes) - J. Larson
- Review of actions, next steps (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-11-20

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- J. Stine
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- Review of Work Group processes:  ways of working, vocabulary review, Technical Charter -- J. Stine (5 minutes)
- Follow-up: Next steps and recommendations, Security Team within Privacy-Security Work Group (5 minutes) -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald
- Report and Recommendations from the Voice Registry System Work Group (30 minutes) --  M. Brinas-Dobrowski
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Technical Committee Feedback:  Questions, Discussion, Recommendations for Next Steps (10 minutes)
- Report and Recommendations from the Architecture Work Group (30 minutes) --  J. Larson
  - Overview of problem statement, process/methodology/references (2 minutes)
  - Key Findings (10 minutes)
  - Recommendations for Action-Adoption (10 minutes)
  - Technical Committee Feedback:  Questions, Discussion, Recommendations for Next Steps (10 minutes)
- Summation Discussion:  Next Steps (10 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Calendar Moving Forward  (5 minutes) -- J. Stine

# 2020-12-11

## The 2020 Review; the 2021 View

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute) -- O. Coleman
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff 
- The YE 2020 Report
  - Where we stand year-end; expectations and goals for 2021  (D. Cundiff)
  - Perspectives from the 2020.12.07 Steering Committee meeting (D. Cundiff)
- Next Steps Report (5-minutes each):
  - VRS Work Group
  - Privacy work-stream within the Privacy & Security Work Group 
  - Security work-stream within the Privacy & Security Work Group
  - Architecture Work Group
  - Vocabulary Reconciliation Task Force
- Organizational Review (5 minutes):  J. Stine
- 2021 Calendar and Planning (J. Stine)
- Summation (D. Cundiff)

# 2021-01-08

## Planning 2021

- Antritrust statement and notice of recording (1 minutes)
- Review of the agenda, purpose of and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- J. Stine
- Open Items/Issues to Review?  -- J. Stine
- 2021 Current State and Plan
  -- expectations overall
  -- available resources for Tech Comm investment
  -- Plans by Work Group
- Open Items, questions, comments, criticisms
- Summation and Next Steps -- J. Stine

# 2021-01-22

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2-minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Plan 2021 Overview, OVN -- J. Stine 
- Plan 2021: OVN Process
- Plan 2021, Technical Committee: thoughts and observations -- D. Cundiff
- Plan 2021, by Tech Comm Work Group: 
    -- introduction to POR development process -- O. Coleman
    -- Plan 2021 Work Group intersections: _where will your WG need others?_
      - VRS: M. Brinas-Dobrowski
      - Architecture:  J. Larson
      - Privacy-Security: M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald, N. Myers
- Summation and Next Steps

# 2021-02-5

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2-minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Proposed Change:  Technical Committee Agenda going forward  
- Reminder: Q1 Milestones
- Progress Reports by Tech Comm Work Group: 
      - VRS: M. Brinas-Dobrowski
      - Architecture-Components:  J. Larson
      - Privacy-Security: M. Frazzini, M. Lens-Fitzgerald, N. Myers
- Summation and Next Steps

# 2021-02-19

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Reminder: Work Group Deep Dives begin 5 March
- Quarterly milestones review (10 minutes)
  - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
  - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-03-05

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Quarterly milestones review (10 minutes)
  - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
  - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Privacy, of the Privacy & Security Work Group (M. Frazzini)
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 19 March -- VRS; 2 April -- Security; 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-03-19

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Update: the OVN and the European Data Protection Board Version 1.0 on Virtual Voice Assistants (5 minutes) -- J. Stine, O. Coleman
- Quarterly milestones review (5 minutes)
  - Q1 milestones: Green-yellow-red report
  - In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Voice Registry System (VRS) -- M. Brinas-Dobrowski 
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 2 April -- Security; 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-04-02

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Q2 Milestones (5 minutes)
  - thoughts on our progress -- Jon 
  - Q2 milestones: In order: VRS, Architecture, Privacy and Security
- 2021.03.05 DEEP DIVE:  Security -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald
  - _reminder of "Deep Dive" schedule: 16 April -- Architecture_
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-04-16

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda, purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Ways of working:  OVN programming language; hosting OVN POC's -- D. Cundiff 
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes)
- Q2 Milestones -- to be identified in Git as of 30 April (5 minutes)
- 2021.04.16 DEEP DIVE:  Architecture -- J. Larson (30 minutes)
- News and New Items -- Trends, thought-provokers, core questions (10 minutes) 
- Adjourn

# 2021-04-30

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Outstanding issue:  OVN programming language (15 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
  - issue recap -- bringing all parties to a common understanding -- D. Cundiff
  - expression of opinions and proposals for adoption
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - O. Coleman
- Updates (5 minutes)
  - Open Voice Network EDPB response: --  O. Coleman
  - Open Voice Network Voice Agent Interoperability Workshop -- J. Larson
- Continuation from last Technical Committee meeting:  Architecture Work Group (20 minutes) -- J. Larson, D. Attwater, D. Dahl
- Deep Dive into three scenarios: the identification and documentation of requirements - process to date and examples
- Outstanding items, news, and events of note
- Adjournment

# 2021-05-14

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- OVN News -- J. Stine
- OVN vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- IP Licensing: next steps for OVN Technical Committee Work Groups (10 minutes) -- J. Stine, D. Cundiff 
- Review of 2021 Tech Comm deliverables, and progress to date  (20 minutes) -- M. Lens-Fitzgerald, O. Coleman, J. Larson, S. Prayaga, M. Brinas-Dobrowski
- Outstanding items, news, and events of note
- Adjournment

# 2021-05-28

No meeting.

# 2021-06-11

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Open Voice Network News -- J. Stine
- Open Voice Network vocabulary: key words, phrases (5 minutes) - J. Stine
- Open Voice Network R&D Investment first thoughts: _to accomplish this deliverable in 2021, we will probably need ________ 
- Privacy and Security Work Group
- Architecture Work Group
- Voice Registry System Work Group
- Voice Agent Interoperability Workshop 15-17 June -- Workshop Program Committee
- Agenda/program/speakers
- Adjournment

# 2021-06-25

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 minutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Open Voice Network News -- J. Stine
- Open Voice Network Voice Agent Interoperability Workshop: lessons learned, next steps 
- Mid-Year Review: Deliverables, Opportunities
- Open Voice Network R&D Investment first thoughts: _to accomplish these deliverables in 2021, we will probably need ________ 
- Privacy and Security Work Group
- Architecture Work Group
- Voice Registry System Work Group
- Adjournment

# 2021-07-23

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording (1 minute)
- Review of the agenda; purpose and expectations for the meeting (2 nminutes) -- D. Cundiff
- Open Voice Network news, vocabulary updates
- The OVON Technical Committee Work Groups: the plan through year-end
- The Work Group's role in "building the rocket" -- Work Group vision, and how it fits into the whole
- phases, and phases that will be completed this year
- Update on deliverables (as shown on a slide and as reflected in GitHub)
- Update on investment plans (what, when, how much)
- News and Updates
- Adjournment
   
# 2021-08-20

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording
- Review of the agenda, expectations for the meeting
- Open Voice Network news
- OVON Technical Committee moving forward 
  - Recommend monthly meetings
  - Confirm central functions of the Technical Committee
    - Ways of working:  tools, processes, vocabulary (code-owner per GitHub per Work Group)
    - Strategic direction:  areas of resource investment (time, personnel, monies)
    - Deliverables: confirmation and review
    - Master Plan: development, review, final decisions
- New Technical Committee chair to be nominated
- Technical Committee Work Group updates
  - Most important achievement / milestone between now and EOM September
  - Most important achievement / milestone between now and EOM October
  - R&D investment update – due EOM August
- Open item discussion / news / adjournment

# 2021-09-17

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording
- Review of the agenda, expectations for the meeting
- Community Specifications License -- Scott Nicholas, Linux Foundation
- Ways of working:  new technical committee chair; process, personnel
- OVON R&D investment: as proposed to the Steering Committee
- OVON opportunities for collaboration: adopt, adapt, partner
- Technical Committee Work Group updates:  recent actions, achievement of milestones
  - Architecture
  - Privacy and Security
  - VRS
- Open item discussion / news / adjournment

# 2021-10-15

- Antitrust statement and notice of recording
- Review of the agenda, expectations for the meeting
- Introductions:  Christian Wuttke, John Trammell
- Open Voice Network news 
- Updates:
  - Sponsor and participant recruitment
  - Program Management
  - Hiring
- New Technical Committee chair to be nominated
- Technical Committee Work Group updates
  - Current work, relevance to other Work Groups
  - Performance vs. Git-documented milestones 
  - Open item discussion / news / adjournment

# 2021-11-19 

- Notice of recording, antitrust policy statement
- Review of the agenda, expectations for the meeting – Christian Wuttke
- Quick Updates – Jon Stine
  - Potential collaboration partners: Stanford
  - Meeting management / responsibilities 
- Work Group reports  (Architecture, Privacy & Security, VRS)
  - Hiring
  - What we will accomplish by year-end 2021
- 2021 in Review / 2022 in Focus 
  - 2021 in Review – areas for improvement:  three things (overall, and in our Work Groups) we could- /should have done better
  - 2022 in Focus:  three things we must accomplish
- Adjourn

# 2021-12-17

- **Invocation, reading of the LF Antitrust Guidance**
- **Ways of Working:**
- when GitHub, when Google, and why
- Deliverables and Milestone management
- cleaning up the OVON GitHub repository
**The Master Plan:**
- LF expectations for transparency, visibility
  - public-facing documents: GitHub (in .md) and OVON.org (Word or Google docs, pdf)
- a Master Plan, or a Master Plan and multiple sub-plans?
- J. Trammell review and assessment
- **2022 Plan**
- Observations from Steering Committee members
- the "headline" for the Technical Committee at YE 2022
- top-down proposed 2022 objectives
- top-down proposed 2022 Q1 milestones
- adjourn

# 2022-02-18

- **Antitrust Invocation**
- **Introduction of New Participants**
- **Review of the Agenda** (C. Wuttke)
- **Ways of Working**
- Reminder of Meeting Protocols
- OVON GitHub Reorganization; Table of Contents
- Community Specifications License: operational implications for Architecture, VRS Work Groups
- **Vocabulary Review**
- **2022.02.17 Steering Committee Meeting Review**  (C. Wuttke)
- **Work Group Updates: Status vs. Q1 and 1H Deliverables**
  - Privacy and Security (N. Myers, O. Coleman)
  - VRS (M. Brinas-Dobrowski)
  - Architecture-Interoperability (J. Larson)
- **Identification of Outstanding Issues**
- Adjourn

# 2022.04.15
- **Greeting, Antitrust Recitation**
- **Introduction of New Participants**
- **Review of Notes from 2022.03.18 meeting; review of 2022.04.15 agenda**
- **OVON Vision: the World To Which We Build**
-   - thought provocation 
- **The OVON Roadmap Q2 and forward**
-   - review of 2022.03.18 Work Group integration slide
-   - review of Work Groups roadmap
-     - Architecture
-     - Privacy and Security
-     **ACTION: DOCUMENTATION OF 1H-Q3 DELIVERABLES
- **Work Group Reviews: Privacy and Security, Architecture, VRS
    - cross work group coordination, integration -- what, when, how
    - **ACTION: SCHEDULING OF FIRST INTEGRATION MEETINGS
- **Adjournment**


## 2022.08.19
## TECHNICAL COMMITTEE AGENDA

#### Greeting, antitrust Invocation 
#### Introduction of New Participants
#### Approval of Minutes
#### Overview and Review of Agenda -- Christian Wuttke
#### Updates from 2022.08.10 Steering Committee Meeting
  * Techical Senior Advisor positions
  * Publication of Interoperability Whitepaper
#### Technical Work and Study Group Updates
  * YE 2020 headlines
  * Deliverables through YE 2022
  * Development Roadmaps
  * Integration
#### Adjournment 
